README.md, before:

# Projeto NLW Python

Este é um projeto inspirado no nlw de fevereiro da rocketseat para utilização de python para criação de uma aplicação baseada em códigos de barra.

## Configurando o ambiente

O primeiro passo é criar um ambiente virtual para a instalação de pacotes e configuração de ambiente utilizando venv.
Para isso 3 coisas são necessárias:
1. Python3 instalado
2. python3-pip instalado
3. python3-venv instalado

Para executar o ambiente usando `.venv` você pode simplesmente rodar o seguint comando:

```shell
. .venv/bin/activate
```
>onde o primeiro ponto é apenas para direcionar para o diretório atual.

Após isso feito, podemos instalar os pacotes `pylint` e `pre-commit`, através dos comandos

```shell
pip3 install pylint
pip3 install pre-commit
```

Agora podemos criar os arquivos de configuração `.pylintrc` e `.pre-commit-config.yml` para configurar um hook de pre-commit e setar as configurações de lint do projeto, onde rodar o comando:

```shell
pylint --generate-rcfile > .pylintrc
```
> Esse comando gera o arquivo .pylintrc automatically

### Bibliotecas necessárias

Antes de exibir as bibliotecas necessárias, primeiro é recomendado que você tenha o arquivo `requirements.txt` no seu projeto para que seja possível identificar as bibliotecas necessárias para o funcionamento do seu projeto.
Para isso basta executar o comando:

```shell
.venv/bin/pip3 freeze > requirements.txt
```

Agora podemos fazer a instalação dos pacotes principais que são eles:

- Flask - Um framework web para construção de apis robustas e escaláveis
- python-barcode - Uma biblioteca feita para criação de imagens de código de barra à partir de strings
- pillow - Uma dependência necessária para o funcionamento da biblioteca python-barcode
- cerberus - Uma biblioteca utilizada para validação robusta e prática

## Architecture (EN)

Ok, actually you have just installed things, now you will structure your code to create a modular application with the right responsibilities.

First your code has to use the pattern of routes and server with blueprints of Flask, that allows you register your routes with a few line of code.

>[!IMPORTANT]
> You have to create a `__init__.py` file on each module to allow you import them from other sources in your codebase.

### Source tree
Your source code will be like this:

```bash
.
├── requirements.txt
├── run.py
└── src
   ├── __init__.py
   ├── main
   │   ├── __init__.py
   │   │
   │   ├── routes
   │   │   ├── __init__.py
   │   │   │
   │   │   └── your_route.py
   │   └── server
   │       ├── __init__.py
   │       │
   │       └── server.py
   │
   ├── views
   │    ├── http_types
   │    │   ├── http_request.py
   │    │   ├── http_response.py
   │    │   └── __init__.py
   │    │   
   │    ├── __init__.py
   │    │
   │    └── your_route_view.py
   ├── drivers
   │    ├── __init__.py
   │    │ 
   │    └── your_lib_driver.py
   │
   │
   └── controllers
        ├── __init__.py
        │ 
        └── your_business_controller.py         

```

Each directory has a significant job

directory|description
:---:|:---:
main|This is where your application is created, classes will be instanced and all logic of routes is used
routes|This is where you can make your blueprint routes to encapsulate the logic of each different route
server|This is where you can register all of your created blueprints in your application to be used on the server
views|This is where you can make your types and classes to make sure that your app will work as expected
drivers|This is where you have to encapsulate your libraries to ensure that if something went wrong you can easily migrate to another solution
controllers|This is where you must apply the business logic that is just responsible to that. 
> The run.py is used to run your application in a specific host and port


### Creating a blueprint

In the `routes` directory, you will create a file with a suggestive name to your purpose, like `user_routes.py`.
```python
from flask import Blueprint, jsonify, request

user_routes_bp = Blueprint("user_routes", __name__)

#...rest of your code

```

>[!NOTE]
> This will just create an instance of Blueprint of Flask with a signature "user_routes"

then you can create any route with any method related to that blueprint

```py
#... example above

@user_routes_bp.route("/create_user",methods=["POST"])
def create_user():
  ### business logic here

@user_routes_bp.route("/user",methods=["GET"])
def get_user():
  ### business logic here

@user_routes_bp.route("/user/:id",methods=["DELETE"])
def delete_user():
  ### business logic here
```

### Registering blueprint

This is quite simple to do, you just need to import your blueprint in the `server` directory from the `routes` directory them use `app.register_blueprint(imported_blueprint)`, and done!

### Creating a Customized Error

This is the finesse of inheritance and polymorphism, here in our codebase we actually can create any error type for our project.
This is because python is a object oriented language, that allow us to work very well with that concept.

So to create a http_unauthorized_entity error, you can follow this steps:

1. create a module responsible to contain the class `HttpUnauthorizedEntity`
2. Then you use the concept of polymorphism like this:
  ```python
  class HttpUnauthorizedEntity(Exception): # this receive an Exception as argument
    def __init__(self, message:str): # this is the constructor
      self.message = message
      self.status_code = 401
      self.name = "Unauthorized Entity"
      super().__init__(self.message) # this call the constructor of the inherited class and pass the message to the argument

  ```

> And that's it! This is an Customized error class that inherit from the Exception interface

To verify if a object `obj` is an instance of `customized_class` you can use the `isInstance(obj,customized_class)` that returns a `Boolean`.

Commit message:

adding customized errors section to README.md and update tree of modules

README.md, after:

# Projeto NLW Python

Este é um projeto inspirado no nlw de fevereiro da rocketseat para utilização de python para criação de uma aplicação baseada em códigos de barra.

## Configurando o ambiente

O primeiro passo é criar um ambiente virtual para a instalação de pacotes e configuração de ambiente utilizando venv.
Para isso 3 coisas são necessárias:
1. Python3 instalado
2. python3-pip instalado
3. python3-venv instalado

Para executar o ambiente usando `.venv` você pode simplesmente rodar o seguint comando:

```shell
. .venv/bin/activate
```
>onde o primeiro ponto é apenas para direcionar para o diretório atual.

Após isso feito, podemos instalar os pacotes `pylint` e `pre-commit`, através dos comandos

```shell
pip3 install pylint
pip3 install pre-commit
```

Agora podemos criar os arquivos de configuração `.pylintrc` e `.pre-commit-config.yml` para configurar um hook de pre-commit e setar as configurações de lint do projeto, onde rodar o comando:

```shell
pylint --generate-rcfile > .pylintrc
```
> Esse comando gera o arquivo .pylintrc automatically

### Bibliotecas necessárias

Antes de exibir as bibliotecas necessárias, primeiro é recomendado que você tenha o arquivo `requirements.txt` no seu projeto para que seja possível identificar as bibliotecas necessárias para o funcionamento do seu projeto.
Para isso basta executar o comando:

```shell
.venv/bin/pip3 freeze > requirements.txt
```

Agora podemos fazer a instalação dos pacotes principais que são eles:

- Flask - Um framework web para construção de apis robustas e escaláveis
- python-barcode - Uma biblioteca feita para criação de imagens de código de barra à partir de strings
- pillow - Uma dependência necessária para o funcionamento da biblioteca python-barcode
- cerberus - Uma biblioteca utilizada para validação robusta e prática

## Architecture (EN)

Ok, actually you have just installed things, now you will structure your code to create a modular application with the right responsibilities.

First your code has to use the pattern of routes and server with blueprints of Flask, that allows you register your routes with a few line of code.

>[!IMPORTANT]
> You have to create a `__init__.py` file on each module to allow you import them from other sources in your codebase.

### Source tree
Your source code will be like this:

```bash
.
├── requirements.txt
├── run.py
└── src
   ├── __init__.py
   ├── main
   │   ├── __init__.py
   │   │
   │   ├── routes
   │   │   ├── __init__.py
   │   │   │
   │   │   └── your_route.py
   │   └── server
   │       ├── __init__.py
   │       │
   │       └── server.py
   │
   ├── views
   │    ├── http_types
   │    │   ├── http_request.py
   │    │   ├── http_response.py
   │    │   └── __init__.py
   │    │   
   │    ├── __init__.py
   │    │
   │    └── your_route_view.py
   ├── drivers
   │    ├── __init__.py
   │    │ 
   │    └── your_lib_driver.py
   ├── errors
   │    ├── error_types
   │    │   ├── http_unprocessable_entity.py
   │    │   ├── http_unauthorized_entity.py
   │    │   └── __init__.py
   │    ├── error_handler.py
   │    └── __init__.py
   ├── validators
   │    ├── __init__.py
   │    │ 
   │    └── your_route_validator.py   
   │
   └── controllers
        ├── __init__.py
        │ 
        └── your_business_controller.py         

```

Each directory has a significant job

directory|description
:---:|:---:
main|This is where your application is created, classes will be instanced and all logic of routes is used
routes|This is where you can make your blueprint routes to encapsulate the logic of each different route
server|This is where you can register all of your created blueprints in your application to be used on the server
views|This is where you can make your types and classes to make sure that your app will work as expected
drivers|This is where you have to encapsulate your libraries to ensure that if something went wrong you can easily migrate to another solution
controllers|This is where you must apply the business logic that is just responsible to that.
errors|This is where your application handle errors, customized or not.
error_types|This is where your application create customized errors
validators|This is where you can create different validations on your application
> The run.py is used to run your application in a specific host and port


### Creating a blueprint

In the `routes` directory, you will create a file with a suggestive name to your purpose, like `user_routes.py`.
```python
from flask import Blueprint, jsonify, request

user_routes_bp = Blueprint("user_routes", __name__)

#...rest of your code

```

>[!NOTE]
> This will just create an instance of Blueprint of Flask with a signature "user_routes"

then you can create any route with any method related to that blueprint

```py
#... example above

@user_routes_bp.route("/create_user",methods=["POST"])
def create_user():
  ### business logic here

@user_routes_bp.route("/user",methods=["GET"])
def get_user():
  ### business logic here

@user_routes_bp.route("/user/:id",methods=["DELETE"])
def delete_user():
  ### business logic here
```

### Registering blueprint

This is quite simple to do, you just need to import your blueprint in the `server` directory from the `routes` directory them use `app.register_blueprint(imported_blueprint)`, and done!

### Creating a Customized Error

This is the finesse of inheritance and polymorphism, here in our codebase we actually can create any error type for our project.
This is because python is a object oriented language, that allow us to work very well with that concept.

So to create a http_unauthorized_entity error, you can follow this steps:

1. create a module responsible to contain the class `HttpUnauthorizedEntity`
2. Then you use the concept of polymorphism like this:
  ```python
  class HttpUnauthorizedEntity(Exception): # this receive an Exception as argument
    def __init__(self, message:str): # this is the constructor
      self.message = message
      self.status_code = 401
      self.name = "Unauthorized Entity"
      super().__init__(self.message) # this call the constructor of the inherited class and pass the message to the argument

  ```

> And that's it! This is an Customized error class that inherit from the Exception interface

To verify if a object `obj` is an instance of `customized_class` you can use the `isInstance(obj,customized_class)` that returns a `Boolean`.
